# tetradiamagazine
The custom WordPress theme for the official website of the <a href="https://tetradiamagazine.gr">"Tetradia" magazine</a>

<p>This is my very first project after learning the basics in the Web Stack. I decided to experiment with Wordpress because it is the most famous CMS and mostly because I didn't where else to start from!</p>
<p>The task was huge for my none-existant skills. I had to create a digital library for a printed political magazine. That means I had to work with categories, multiple authors, a huge number of footnotes, strict typography, great number of posts, indeces etc. First, I tried to modify an existing theme. It didn't work and needless to say it was a hard lesson. So I devided to create a wordpress theme from scratch, designed specifically for the needs of my project. It was a nightmare. I've spent hours and hours reading the documentation, trying to understand the php etc. I think I've hit each and every restriction and limitation of the Wordpress framework, trying to micromanage every single detail. Needless to say it is not the tool's fault but mine.p>
<p>I had problems with categories, multiple authors, indexing, pagination, links, search, everything. I had to work around these problems using quite anorthodox and sometimes bad practices (as I regard them in retrospect), but somehow I managed to pull through. I tried not to use any plugins - though modularity - is one of WP's major advantages, because I wanted total control over the code and complete understanding of what is going on. In the end I had to use a couple of plugins for multiple authors and for images into categories; and that caused more problems, mostly because the plugins did not support the greek language. I had to tamper with the original code to make them work as I needed them. In the co-authors caused me more problems by failing in almost half the occasions; I fixed this by deleting from the db the "faulty" entries and re-entering them.</p>
<p>Another notable challenge was indexing the authors in alphabetical order. That meant sorting alphabetically names with characters in the greek, latin and cyrillic alphabet. Since I diddin't have at the time knowledge to messs with the db I used the url field as a "sorting" filter to manually order the authors; and I had to rename most of them to match the new criteria. That's where co-authors almost completely broke down and I had to rebuild most of the authors db. During the process I've also created my first custom functions with original logic of which I am still very proud, though they are not something really special.</p>
<p>My greatest difficulty though has been with categories. I needed to sort the different posts not only by author(s), neither by date, but by issue. So I created categories, one for each issue. Each post would have its category, with image cover and everything. \the idea seemed to work great until another problem arised: There is no way to create dynamic links between categories. That means there was no way to create dynamic previous-next category links. This problem bothered me for countless hours. VERY long story short, in the end I worked around the problem by creating an array consisting of the categories-issues ids and creating a 350 lines with if clauses code that sets the links... Not nice to the eye but it did the dirty job...</p>
<p>The project is now up and running! Though a painfull task, It has also been a great experience and I have learned much about php, WP, servers, hosting etc the hard way. Totally worth it, though if I ever revisit this project I'll migrate it to Laravel, without second thoughts.</p>
<p>Feel free to comment and point out bad code and practices, I'd be happy to learn something new!</p>

<p><em>Stathis Andreou @ <a href="https://deepseacoding.com">deepSeaCoding.com</a></em></p>
